README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Ankit Mittal</h1>
<h3 align="center">MERN Stack Developer | React.js | TypeScript | Tailwind CSS | Node.js | MongoDB | Docker | AWS</h3>

---

### 💫 About Me

Full-Stack Developer with strong problem-solving skills, demonstrated by solving 500+ LeetCode challenges. 
Proficient in React.js, TypeScript, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB, with hands-on experience in building scalable, user-friendly applications. 
Skilled at writing clean, efficient, and maintainable code to deliver high-quality solutions.

---

### 💼 Work Experience

#### 🏢 [App-Knit - Backend Developer Intern] (Sept 2025 - Present)

- Built RESTful APIs with MVC architecture for clean and scalable solutions.
- Integrated Firebase Cloud Messaging for push notifications, Twilio for phone number OTP verification, and Nodemailer with Handlebars templates for dynamic, customizable email communications.
- Utilized Node.js, MongoDB and AWS for backend development, database management and deployment.

#### 🏢 [Synvide Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd. – React.js Developer Intern] (Sept 2024 - Nov 2024)

- Developed OSHOPPE, a full-stack e-commerce platform with admin panel and customer-facing interface.
- Implemented location-based product availability, cart, wishlist, checkout, and Razorpay integration.
- Built admin tools for product, dealer, and order management with AWS S3 image storage.

---

### 🧩 Featured Projects

#### 🗓️ [Cric11 – Fantasy Cricket Web App] (https://cric11-fantasy.onrender.com)

- Built a full-stack fantasy cricket platform allowing users to create teams, select captain/vice-captain and join paid contests.
- Integrated live score updates, Razorpay payment and automated email notifications using Nodemailer.
- Built UI with React, Tailwind CSS and implemented backend services using Node.js and MongoDB.
- Implemented CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions to automate testing and deployment on AWS.
- Built an admin panel to create and manage contests for upcoming matches.

#### 🗓️ [Clean Neighbourhood]
- A community-focused app that enables students and residents to log litter cleanup activities, upload proof, and track service hours, with an admin panel for verifying submissions and managing users.
- Developed the backend by building RESTful APIs with Node.js and MongoDB to support user authentication, session management, and data storage.
- Integrated Firebase notifications for real-time updates and Twilio OTP for secure sign-in.
- Developed admin panel APIs for reviewing submissions, verifying service hours, and managing user data.

#### 📝 [Oshoppe E-Commerce Platform] (https://oshoppe-ecom.onrender.com/)

- Developed a full-stack e-commerce platform with dedicated admin and customer interfaces.
- Admin Panel: Built dashboard with key metrics, product management, dealer–pincode mapping, AWS S3 image storage, order tracking, and category–subcategory–brand catalog organization.
- Customer Side: Developed responsive interface with location-based availability, wishlist, cart, buy-now, Razorpay payments, invoice generation, order tracking, and multi-address management.

---


### 🚀 Tech Stack

- **Languages:** C, C++, JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Frontend:** React.js, Redux Toolkit, HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express.js, REST APIs, MongoDB, MySQL, JWT, Redis
- **Tools & Platforms:** Docker, AWS (S3, ECS, IAM), GitHub Actions (CI/CD Pipelines), Git, GitHub, Postman, Razorpay, Nodemailer
- **Development Practices:** Unit Testing (Jest), Agile Methodologies, SDLC, Version Control
- **Others:** Data Structures & Algorithms (DSA), Operating Systems, DBMS, OOPs, Computer Networks

---


### 🔎 Currently Looking For

- Internsips or Full-time roles as a **Full-Stack Developer** or **Frontend Engineer**
- Open to **remote**, **hybrid** and **on-site** opportunities

---

### 📫 Reach Me At

- 📧 [ankitmittal0814@gmail.com](mailto:ankitmittal0814@gmail.com)
- 💼 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit305/)
- 🌍 [Portfolio](https://ankit-dev.onrender.com/)

---

## 🌐 Socials

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%230077B5.svg?logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/ankit305)
[![Gmail](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:ankitmittal0814@gmail.com)
[![Leetcode](https://img.shields.io/badge/Leetcode-FFA500)](https://leetcode.com/u/ankitmittal0814/)
[![HackerRank](https://img.shields.io/badge/HackerRank-228B22)](https://www.hackerrank.com/profile/ankitmittal0814)
[![InterviewBit](https://img.shields.io/badge/InterviewBit-1c96c5)](https://www.interviewbit.com/profile/ankit-mittal_735/)

---

## 💻 Tech Stack

<div align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40" alt="javascript logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original.svg" height="40" alt="react logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" height="40" alt="typescript logo"/>        
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" height="40" alt="html5 logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" height="40" alt="css3 logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-original.svg" height="40" alt="bootstrap logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="tailwindcss logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" height="40" alt="nodejs logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" height="40" alt="express logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original.svg" height="40" alt="mongodb logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redis/redis-original.svg" height="40" alt="redis logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" height="40" alt="docker logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-original.svg" height="40" alt="mysql logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" height="40" alt="git logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" height="40" alt="cplusplus logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://img.icons8.com/?size=100&id=33039&format=png&color=000000" height="40" alt="aws logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/jest/jest-plain.svg" height="40" alt="jest logo" />
                    
</div>

###

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false&include_all_commits=false&count_private=false)
![](https://nirzak-streak-stats.vercel.app/?user=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false)
![](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false&layout=compact)

---

### ✍️ Dev Quote

![](https://quotes-github-readme.vercel.app/api?type=horizontal&theme=radical)

---

Commit message:

Update README with Besti.AI project details
Added details about Besti.AI project including features and integrations.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Ankit Mittal</h1>
<h3 align="center">MERN Stack Developer | React.js | TypeScript | Tailwind CSS | Node.js | MongoDB | Docker | AWS</h3>

---

### 💫 About Me

Full-Stack Developer with strong problem-solving skills, demonstrated by solving 500+ LeetCode challenges. 
Proficient in React.js, TypeScript, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB, with hands-on experience in building scalable, user-friendly applications. 
Skilled at writing clean, efficient, and maintainable code to deliver high-quality solutions.

---

### 💼 Work Experience

#### 🏢 [App-Knit - Backend Developer Intern] (Sept 2025 - Present)

- Built RESTful APIs with MVC architecture for clean and scalable solutions.
- Integrated Firebase Cloud Messaging for push notifications, Twilio for phone number OTP verification, and Nodemailer with Handlebars templates for dynamic, customizable email communications.
- Utilized Node.js, MongoDB and AWS for backend development, database management and deployment.

#### 🏢 [Synvide Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd. – React.js Developer Intern] (Sept 2024 - Nov 2024)

- Developed OSHOPPE, a full-stack e-commerce platform with admin panel and customer-facing interface.
- Implemented location-based product availability, cart, wishlist, checkout, and Razorpay integration.
- Built admin tools for product, dealer, and order management with AWS S3 image storage.

---

### 🧩 Featured Projects

#### 🗓️ [Besti.AI] (https://dev-web.bestiai.ai)

- A comprehensive AI-powered clinical support platform for licensed estheticians.
- Designed and implemented RESTful APIs for user authentication, subscription management, and client/studio (owners, users) operations.
- Integrated OpenAI GPT models to generate personalized skincare regimens and structured treatment protocols based on user prompts and product inventory.
- Integrated Stripe for subscription-based feature access, including client limits, regimen/protocol generation, AI usage, renewals, cancellations, and trials.
- Implemented automated cron jobs for subscription renewals and client follow-up notifications.


#### 🗓️ [Cric11 – Fantasy Cricket Web App] (https://cric11-fantasy.onrender.com)

- Built a full-stack fantasy cricket platform allowing users to create teams, select captain/vice-captain and join paid contests.
- Integrated live score updates, Razorpay payment and automated email notifications using Nodemailer.
- Built UI with React, Tailwind CSS and implemented backend services using Node.js and MongoDB.
- Implemented CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions to automate testing and deployment on AWS.
- Built an admin panel to create and manage contests for upcoming matches.

#### 🗓️ [Clean Neighbourhood]
- A community-focused app that enables students and residents to log litter cleanup activities, upload proof, and track service hours, with an admin panel for verifying submissions and managing users.
- Developed the backend by building RESTful APIs with Node.js and MongoDB to support user authentication, session management, and data storage.
- Integrated Firebase notifications for real-time updates and Twilio OTP for secure sign-in.
- Developed admin panel APIs for reviewing submissions, verifying service hours, and managing user data.

#### 📝 [Oshoppe E-Commerce Platform] (https://oshoppe-ecom.onrender.com/)

- Developed a full-stack e-commerce platform with dedicated admin and customer interfaces.
- Admin Panel: Built dashboard with key metrics, product management, dealer–pincode mapping, AWS S3 image storage, order tracking, and category–subcategory–brand catalog organization.
- Customer Side: Developed responsive interface with location-based availability, wishlist, cart, buy-now, Razorpay payments, invoice generation, order tracking, and multi-address management.

---


### 🚀 Tech Stack

- **Languages:** C, C++, JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Frontend:** React.js, Redux Toolkit, HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express.js, REST APIs, MongoDB, MySQL, JWT, Redis
- **Tools & Platforms:** Docker, AWS (S3, ECS, IAM), GitHub Actions (CI/CD Pipelines), Git, GitHub, Postman, Razorpay, Nodemailer
- **Development Practices:** Unit Testing (Jest), Agile Methodologies, SDLC, Version Control
- **Others:** Data Structures & Algorithms (DSA), Operating Systems, DBMS, OOPs, Computer Networks

---


### 🔎 Currently Looking For

- Internsips or Full-time roles as a **Full-Stack Developer** or **Frontend Engineer**
- Open to **remote**, **hybrid** and **on-site** opportunities

---

### 📫 Reach Me At

- 📧 [ankitmittal0814@gmail.com](mailto:ankitmittal0814@gmail.com)
- 💼 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit305/)
- 🌍 [Portfolio](https://ankit-dev.onrender.com/)

---

## 🌐 Socials

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%230077B5.svg?logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/ankit305)
[![Gmail](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:ankitmittal0814@gmail.com)
[![Leetcode](https://img.shields.io/badge/Leetcode-FFA500)](https://leetcode.com/u/ankitmittal0814/)
[![HackerRank](https://img.shields.io/badge/HackerRank-228B22)](https://www.hackerrank.com/profile/ankitmittal0814)
[![InterviewBit](https://img.shields.io/badge/InterviewBit-1c96c5)](https://www.interviewbit.com/profile/ankit-mittal_735/)

---

## 💻 Tech Stack

<div align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40" alt="javascript logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original.svg" height="40" alt="react logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" height="40" alt="typescript logo"/>        
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" height="40" alt="html5 logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" height="40" alt="css3 logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-original.svg" height="40" alt="bootstrap logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" alt="tailwindcss logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" height="40" alt="nodejs logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" height="40" alt="express logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original.svg" height="40" alt="mongodb logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redis/redis-original.svg" height="40" alt="redis logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" height="40" alt="docker logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-original.svg" height="40" alt="mysql logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" height="40" alt="git logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" height="40" alt="cplusplus logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://img.icons8.com/?size=100&id=33039&format=png&color=000000" height="40" alt="aws logo"  />
  <img width="12" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/jest/jest-plain.svg" height="40" alt="jest logo" />
                    
</div>

###

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false&include_all_commits=false&count_private=false)
![](https://nirzak-streak-stats.vercel.app/?user=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false)
![](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=ankitmittal4&theme=dark&hide_border=false&layout=compact)

---

### ✍️ Dev Quote

![](https://quotes-github-readme.vercel.app/api?type=horizontal&theme=radical)

---
